[DOCS-2848] [CWS] documentation around troubleshooting, starting with self-tests (#12300)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/security_platform/cloud_workload_security/self_test.md

---
title: Troubleshooting
kind: documentation
description: "Troubleshooting guide for Datadog Cloud Workload Security."
---

## Self tests

In order to ensure that:
- the communication between the `security-agent` and the `system-probe` is
working as expected

> - the Cloud Workload Security probe is able to respond to system events

Reviewer: s/respond/detect/ WDYT ?

you can manually trigger self tests by running the following command:

| Platform     | Command                                                                             |
| --------     | -------                                                                             |
| Docker       | `docker exec -it datadog-agent security-agent runtime self-test`                    |
| Kubernetes   | `kubectl exec -it <POD_NAME> -c security-agent -- security-agent runtime self-test` |
| Host         | `sudo /opt/datadog-agent/embedded/bin/security-agent runtime self-test`             |

The self-test procedure creates some temporary files and rules monitoring
them, and then triggers those rules ensuring that events are correctly propagated.

If everything is working as expected, you should see:
```
Runtime self test: OK
```

> 

Author: Good point I will add this

---
title: Troubleshooting
kind: documentation

> description: "Troubleshooting guide for Datadog Cloud Workload Security."

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
description: "Troubleshooting for Cloud Workload Security."
```

---

## Self tests

> In order to ensure that:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In order to ensure that the communication between the `security-agent` and the `system-probe` is working as expected and the Cloud Workload Security probe is able to detect system events, you can manually trigger self tests by running the following command:

```

> - the communication between the `security-agent` and the `system-probe` is

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> working as expected

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> - the Cloud Workload Security probe is able to detect system events

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> you can manually trigger self tests by running the following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

| Platform     | Command                                                                             |
| --------     | -------                                                                             |
| Docker       | `docker exec -it datadog-agent security-agent runtime self-test`                    |
| Kubernetes   | `kubectl exec -it <POD_NAME> -c security-agent -- security-agent runtime self-test` |
| Host         | `sudo /opt/datadog-agent/embedded/bin/security-agent runtime self-test`             |

> The self-test procedure creates some temporary files and rules monitoring

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The self-test procedure creates some temporary files and rules to monitor them, and then triggers those rules to ensure that events are correctly propagated.
```

> them, and then triggers those rules ensuring that events are correctly propagated.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> If everything is working as expected, you should see:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following response appears when rules are propagated.
```

```
Runtime self test: OK
```

> and then see events coming from the `runtime-security-agent` in your logs

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

You can now see events coming from the `runtime-security-agent` in the Log Explorer.
```

> {{< img src="security_platform/cws/self_test_logs.png" alt="Self Test events in Logs explorer" style="width:90%;">}}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{{< img src="security_platform/cws/self_test_logs.png" alt="Self test events in the Log Explorer" style="width:90%;">}}
```

> In the case of an error, you should see:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If not properly configured, the following error may occur, where `<ERROR_MESSAGE>` is a description of the error encountered during the test.

```

Reviewer 2: Do we have common errors / resolution steps for those errors? Might be helpful to add in a few here with mention of how to resolve. If not, I'd remove this section entirely as it's self-explanatory and could spark more confusion than help.

Author: For now we don't. I will remove this section

```
Runtime self test: <ERROR_MESSAGE>
```

> where `<ERROR_MESSAGE>` is a description of the error encountered during the test.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
